We're in Ephesians 1 this morning.
We're going to be picking a few passages here and there for the days and weeks to come for our Christmas season and our new years.
Next week, we may be in Ephesians.
We may be in the Book of Ruth.
We'll see what the Lord leads us.
But what an amazing place to be.
Ephesians 1, verse 1 and 2 is what we'll look at today.
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God to the saints who were in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus, grace to you in peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
What a beautiful passage that come into a Christmas
season and celebration and just the timing and the way God orchestrates these things for us.
He's always so intimate with us.
But as we look at our passage today and we see these verses before us, it brings me to this slide before us today, titled My Messages, Resting in God's Love.
And that's the book of Ephesians.
And it's a beautiful flow in that the first three chapters of Ephesians is doctrine.
And then the next three passages, next three chapters are duty.
Doctrine, what God thinks of us and who God is.
And then duty, what he's asking us to do and these type of things.
I got a little feedback here.
What is my feedback?
Maybe I should step back a little and try that.
How's the feedback now?
Better?
I think so.
As we look at our flow through here, Ephesians chapter 2, and says verse 6, and raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus.
Ephesians 4, 1, I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you are called.
Then Ephesians chapter 6, stand, therefore.
And then we get into the spiritual armor, having gird your ways with truth and put on the breastplate.
You know, I think there's a place.
I think it's the hardest thing for me to sit.
I am such a
must produce, something must be accomplished.
There has to be something at the end of the day that I can say and see I move this from here to here.
I had a hundred bricks that needed to be moved and I moved a hundred bricks or fifty bricks and I feel like I'd done something but it's very hard for me to
make the end of the day and look and go man I didn't move one brick there's still a hundred bricks to move they're all still sitting there and I think it's such a spiritual application for us because we always feel like we need to be doing something we need to be moving somewhere we need to be accomplishing somewhere and then we can find at the end of the day I didn't move a hundred spiritual bricks or whatever that may be and then I feel like I didn't go out and you know
prepare these Bible studies or go and feed the hungry or whatever it may be.
And then at the end of the day, feel like it was accomplished, nothing.
And Ephesians is just so beautiful, what's considered by our church fathers and through the ages, the Swiss Alps of the New Testament.
We will go into the highest and most lofty places of spiritual truths
and promises of God and these type of things.
And we just start with, here's the flow that God gives us.
Just sit.
Psalm 46, 10, be still.
Know that I'm God.
And when you look at the wisdom behind the way the Lord laid out, the Swiss Alps of the New Testament, this book of Ephesians, if we can sit long enough,
then we can sit and we can stand against or we can walk and we can stand against anything.
We can go out and do the things God calls us to do and we can stand against all that the devil throws at us, but if we don't sit long enough, we'll never have what we need to go walk in the things of the Lord.
And then when the devil shows up with his ways, there's no way that we can stand.
against the wows of the devil.
So once again, I'd like to pray again as we open and say, Lord, would you just give us a beautiful Sunday?
Thank you for the glorious creation, the majesty of a blanket of snow.
And Lord, it's amazing that the picture that snow gives us, in that it wasn't part of your creation design until after the fall.
And yet even after the fall, we can still see the beauty that comes with things because it's who you are.
And we look at the beauty of snow and the fresh blanket of snow, whitest snow.
You take things of the fall and you weave them in and tell us a story, though, your sins are like scarlet.
I'll make you whitest snow.
And what a beautiful song as we sing that type of song, whitest snow.
And Lord, you've made us clean because you've forgiven us and you've given us a calling and a word to stand on for these days among us.
And so Lord, would you teach us, minister, minister to those online who could make it, minister to those in the building who have, let your spirit be here Lord, to or more gathered.
I know you're here in your name, amen.
And as we
Let's read it again.
Ephesians 1 and 2, we're going to see the person, we're going to see a position, we're going to see promises.
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God,
to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus.
Grace to you in peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And I start with that person position promise and we will see it in our verses today.
We're going to see it all the way through this whole book.
If you go and read it today, all six chapters or however long we continue in this before we
begin some new book, but I know I'm gonna be working and spending some time in here in December and January of the end of year and start a year and what a passage for us.
And the person is Paul.
But as we'll read through here for however long we're in this book, but today as well, the person's Paul, he's a personal person.
And this book is written personally to us.
And so as we read these things, it's God with this person and making it personal.
I got a personal message to you.
I have something that I want to share with you from my heart.
You know what I love?
You know that saying when someone comes to you and they say, hey, don't take this personal.
And you know, something's coming that you go, boy, here we go, confrontation or contentions, whatever it is, but I don't think it's going to be coming well because no one ever comes and says, hey, don't take this personal, but I think you're the most wonderful person in the world.
It always starts in some other manner.
Hey, don't take this personal, but you know, the other day, and you go, oh, here we go.
But here's what the Lord would say.
Please take this personal.
Let this reach into your heart.
Your position and the promises are personally to you.
And as we look at these things, as we'll study and just read through, it's more devotional today, perfect love has written this book.
And perfect love gives these promises of our position
and we'll see our position in Christ and we want a great snowy day devotional.
read through the book of Ephesians, get your highlighter out.
If you're a highlighter or a note taker, write it down in your devotional journal.
Everywhere you'll read something that has to do with in him in Christ in these type of things, because it's the personal position that he gives us is that we are in Christ.
So it takes us back to this place where we just
We always want to get out and we want to move and we want to be walking and doing all these type of places.
And the Lord just says, first, just sit.
Just sit.
Know who you are in me.
Know how personal this is, this book that you read.
And then the third one here is the promises.
Here He gives us an apostle, Jesus Christ, by the will of God.
Here's our first promise to us to the saints.
that are in Ephesus.
Here's my first promise that's personal to you that I want you to glean and take.
The Lord would say, you're a saint.
It's a plural.
It's present.
I know it's offensive to some what I'll say next.
Don't take it personal, but you don't have to die to become a saint.
And no one has to pray, and you don't have to perform two miracles, and then a group votes on it.
here written to the living people that he says, saints, and that's who you are.
And we'll talk about as we get to that verse, but here's the promise that he starts with that we're saints.
And I think, yeah, I was Alexander the Great after taking one of his great
cities that he conquered and one of the things he would do after he would conquer cities is he would give the city to his generals who did the brought the victory.
And there was this one city that I can't remember the name off top of my head, but it was a large city.
It was a great city.
It was a great victory that was brought to Alexander and the Empire and he gave it to the general.
And one of the people said, the city is not this city too great to give to one man, to which Alexander the Great said, that may be so.
But the city that he who gives, that's me, is great enough to give it.
And what a powerful impact the emperor, the king, the great Alexander, the great.
He said, maybe nobody else deserves a city.
Yeah.
But I do have in my power to give the city and the promise to anyone whom I choose.
And what a picture, you know, we would say, wow, someone was given a whole city with all the wealth and the riches.
And what a picture we see here with the Lord Himself of maybe you feel that you're not worthy.
I won't disagree with that, but who's great enough to give it?
I'm the great one who gives it and I have the power to give it.
And so as we continue on here, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus, we start with Paul the author.
And it needs to be recorded for us as we look at the title that we have today, resting in God's love.
And that's going to be the theme of our whole study here is, well, who wrote it?
Widowmaker wrote it, a literally one who would be the take the letter to bring against the church, to bring death upon the saints, to imprison them, and yet he was met on the road by the Lord himself.
And it's a beautiful place as we look at that in Acts 9, if you want to read the whole passage that we have there, but Acts 9, 1 through 6, then Saul still breathing threats
and murder against the disciples of the Lord went to the high priest and asked letters from him to the synagogue of Damascus so that if he found any who were on the way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
As he journeyed, he came near Damascus and suddenly a light shone from heaven.
Then he fell to the ground and heard the voice saying to him, saw, saw, why are you persecuting me?
And I love it.
And you can see my title of that slide.
You know what Saul means?
Desired.
And the Lord is saying, desired, desired.
And he's calling out and he's breathing this, Saul is breathing this wrath upon the church and yet here the Lord shows up and he says, desired, desired.
God shows up to him personally.
Hey, why are you doing this?
Then he's going to say, who are you, Lord?
Then the Lord says, I am Jesus whom you're persecuting.
It's hard for you to kick against the goats.
So he trembled and astonished saying, Lord, what do you want me to do?
Then the Lord said to him, arise, go into the city and you'll be told what you must do in the beautiful place that we have here in God shows up to this man.
who would be the last one we would ever think God would show up to.
Or maybe the next the last.
Because if it was up to me, I would say, I could see you picking Saul over me any day.
I would see that I should be the last person that you would ever show up to and reveal yourself to and give your grace and your mercy to.
And the Lord would speak to my heart as He speaks to my heart through this word.
He speaks to your heart and He takes us and this book is personal.
He wants us to take it personal and He wants to speak desired.
I desired you.
I desire you still today.
We'll talk about that later because we might go, yeah, you desired me X, Y, Z years ago.
I don't feel that today.
I think maybe you could would change your mind if you could.
And the Lord will say, no, my desire for you has never changed.
My heart for you has never changed just like it is for the Apostle Paul desired, desired.
I just want to say before I move on, especially those who are watching online today,
Do you know your desired?
But I want to ask you the question, are you sure that you're sure?
That if you were to die tonight, that you would stand before God into His presence and be invited in to the throne of grace and have everlasting salvation, and that your sins would be forgiven?
And if you do not have a moment
Paul had a moment where he met the Lord.
It's clear right here.
And I would say if you're struggling with, I don't know the moment.
Maybe you don't know the moment, but I pray you know.
I might not know the exact moment, but I know the culmination and summation that I have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ.
I'm sure that my sins are forgiven.
And I know that if I was to die tonight, I would go to heaven and the answer is because.
And that's what the answer has to be because.
And when I ask people, are you sure?
And if they give any other answer other than, I'm sure because Jesus Christ died from my sin.
What is the gospel?
Romans 3, 23.
All sin falls short of the glory of God.
Romans 6, 23, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life and Christ Jesus our Lord.
Sin earns a wage just like going to work and you toil and you task and at the end you're given a wage for that work that you've done.
Well, it's the same with sin.
We're storing up an account of wages for breaking God's holy law.
Thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not lust, thou shalt not have murder in your heart, and use the Lord's name in vain."
Just a couple of the 10 commandments that we have there.
And just like anywhere else, if we went out here and we broke man's law on the freeway and got pulled over, there would be a penalty to pay, a fine to be assessed.
Well, the same is true here with the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the Word of God that when we break God's holy walk,
Law there's a wage and the wages sin it's eternal separation from the Lord and if you follow any of the kind of Christian news one of the One of the Great he was It still is great brother and the Lord no doubt Kurt Cameron he Decided and he
He said he's kind of still struggling with it, but the way it came out and the way the podcast came out, that he doesn't believe in eternal damnation.
He doesn't believe in eternal consciousness.
He believes that if you die and you did not ask Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sin, you are
Judged in that manner and then you have what is called annihilation your whole body being spirit and soul is just consumed and you exist no more Only those who will have everlasting life for those who receive Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior will enter into Heaven and have eternal life It's errant and I can see why people would like that
doctrine because people have a hard time that God would sentence somebody to eternal separation.
But I make the statement very clear, and Jesus makes it very clear that there's a place of outer darkness weeping, of gnashing in the teeth.
And he makes a clear statement of where the worm diaphnot and the fire is never quenched.
He's making a very clear statement, eternal life lives on.
And then the fire is never quenched and so will the consequence that there will be the experiencing of the separation in darkness with the fire never quenching no matter how a person screams out.
And what I just said should bring us to a place that would make us go, I don't want to see anyone go there.
I have a calling and we're going to talk about
Paul's mission statement, it's our mission statement because it's Jesus' mission statement that, Lord, I don't want anyone to perish.
Lord, at the minimum, change my prayer life.
Change my prayer life to pray for those that are perishing.
And then Lord, give me the spirit and the power and the guts and the boldness to go do something if I'm the one.
But maybe God's gonna pray for you to pray for someone else who will go do that very thing.
That doctrine is errant of annihilation because, and as Kurt Cameron says, it brings me comfort to know that there's annihilation because there is nothing that is that grave that deserves such punishment and he's wrong.
Because this is what the whole gospel is.
It is the gravest
of sin that deserves the gravest of a punishment, and it is to reject what Jesus Christ did on the cross for the forgiveness of sin.
Romans 5a, but God demonstrated His love for us that while we were still yet sinners, Christ died for us, to break God's holy law and then to say, and I don't want this gift of salvation through Jesus Christ,
That's the gravest to sin.
It deserves the punishment that comes.
But God offers.
He offers Himself.
We come into Christmas.
Jesus Christ, God Himself, steps down, walks into this earth and takes on the sin of the world.
Perfect, spotless Lamb of God.
Born in Bethlehem where they would raise the temple sacrifices of the lambs, perfect to be viewed by the high priest and the priest before they could be sacrificed there upon the temple for the Passover of sin.
Jesus Christ would come 33 perfect years and then come and take this place and this sin.
And all the man has to do.
Romans 10, 8.
But what does it say?
The word is near in your mouth and in your heart.
That is the word of faith we preach that if you confess, that means to agree with your mouth, the Lord Jesus.
And believe in your heart that God raised them from the dead.
You will be saved for with the heart one believes on the righteousness and with the mouth confession is made on the salvation for the scripture says whoever believes on him will not be put to shame for there is no distinction between Jew and Greek for the same Lord is overall to all who call upon him for whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved and God makes that so clear and so easy.
But there's a place that the person comes to.
center and my sin separates me.
And then when we come to a place that I know I needed a sinner and then all saying, God starts changing our heart.
And we start saying, I want a new life and a changed life.
And that's where Paul's life happened.
So before I move on, I just want to say, I prayed today.
Anybody watching anybody who's here in this podcast right now, maybe on the radio as well.
Have you had that moment?
That experience, like Paul, because this is very clear today, there's no wondering, this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, and it must be acted upon.
And there's a place of Romans 10 where you must make that decision.
I agree.
I'm a sinner.
My sin separates me.
My wages is death.
and the only way that I can be saved through what Jesus Christ did on the cross.
And I pray, you would pray that prayer today and watch your life change and then find yourself a Bible teaching church and get plugged in and let God start doing His wonderful work.
And that's what we do here every Sunday.
And then for every Sunday, as we look at, we always look at these things and this beautiful passage for us, well, who is God?
What does He think of me?
Here we read God, perfect love, loves us, died for us.
And then we always say, who's God, what does he think of me?
And then what does he want me to do?
And this is what the Apostle Paul would say as we looked at that there in Acts chapter nine, Lord, what do you want me to do?
And he gives us this great calling for Paul, he was to be an Apostle, a send out one,
And that's all that apostle means.
John 20, 21.
So Jesus said to them again, peace to you as the Father has sent me.
I also send you.
And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said, receive the Holy Spirit.
We don't have to go and do these things alone.
He gives us the power of the Spirit to live in us, to give us the supply.
But here is Jesus' mission statement that becomes our mission statement that I just pray is the mission statement at this very moment right here, Luke chapter four, verse 18.
and the Spirit of the Lord is upon me."
This is Jesus speaking, because He has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor.
He sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery a sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed to proclaim the acceptable ear of the Lord.
What a message we have to preach the gospel to the poor, not just poor in material, but poor in needy in spirit to heal the brokenhearted.
And again, the word of the Lord and the presence of the Lord today just wants to heal brokenhearted people.
What's breaking your heart today?
Jesus would say, that's my mission statement is to heal that hurt that you have and that pain that you're suffering and enduring.
And then to proclaim at liberty to the captives, I have the power through my spirit.
When you receive me and ask for me, I have the power through my spirit to set you free.
from the sin and death to come, but the sin and death of life today is that I can give you freedom over that addiction.
I can give you freedom over your anger and give you freedom over that thing that binds you and keeps you captives that keep you from the ultimate fulfillment of John 10 10.
I've come that they may have life and that more abundant to give recovery a sight to the blind and do that physically.
They'll know who the Messiah was, but the us that we all sunny have these new spiritual eyes to see.
the world that we live in, the sea, the emptiness of it, and the darkness of it, but I love it to see the recovery of sight, to the blind, to see who we are in Christ Jesus, to see our person that's personal, to see our position and who we are, and then the promises that God gives us to set at liberty, those who are oppressed, and to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord.
So he says,
Paul and Apostle Jesus Christ by the will of God.
God has a will for each and every one of us that's different.
We talked about that in last week's closing of Genesis chapter 50.
And here we are, coming back into it and sliding back into it, that God has a perfect will for all of us.
God has a gift for all of us to go and fulfill this mission statement for all of us.
But you know, for you note-takers, 2 Corinthians 11, Philippians 3, as it talks about, well, here's Paul's will.
I'm gonna make you an apostle, a sent-out one.
But here's what came with the will for Paul.
In 2 Corinthians 11, we read these things
as he would say, from the Jews five times, I received 40 stripes minus one, 39 lashes, five times in his life, three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked.
A night and a day I've been in the deep, a journey off in perils of water, in perils of robbers, in perils of my own countrymen, and it goes on, and this is the will that God had for this great apostle.
But here's, we could spend time on that, but what I want to
Show the flip to it is Philippians 3 verse 4 says, though I also might have confidence in the flesh.
If anyone else thinks that he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so.
And here he speaks before he came to Christ, who he was, circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, concerning the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal, persecuting the church, concerning righteousness, which is in the law, blameless.
But what things were gained to me, these have counted loss for Christ, yet indeed I also count all things, loss for the excellency of the
of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ."
He's making a reference, no doubt one of the things to 2 Corinthians 11 and the life that he's living.
And here's the takeaway that I want to make for this is Philippians 3 is all that Paul would glory in before he met Christ on that road to Damascus.
All the things that the religious leaders would glory in and people would stop when these religious leaders would walk the streets, people would stop and put their head down because they wouldn't count themselves worthy to be in the same presence.
And they would let them walk by and the reverence that was held and all these things Paul had.
And here's Paul says, all that saw his name before Jesus changed his name, the Paul.
all that Saul gloried in, Paul threw away.
Do you see that?
When he was Saul, Philippians 3, all this glory that people will go, man, you are something in your religiousness.
And here we read 2 Corinthians 11, yet all that he would experience with the perils and shipwrecks and the beatings and lost reputation.
He got anything and all things that the old man Saul gloried in.
I willingly and gladly threw away for the glory that comes through Christ Jesus and be in his.
I think there's a place that I look at that and I say that for myself.
I look back to all the things I gloried in before Jesus saved me.
And it was all rubbish of no value.
I'll tell you what, for me, I think life was easier from a personal perspective.
You step in and you start becoming someone who wants to stand out and be what we're going to read a saint that the world sees.
who becomes therefore a target of the devil, and it's easy to go.
Any old dead fish can float down, but boy, to swim against the tide.
All that Saul, Gloria, and Paul threw away.
So may that be it for us.
But I do want to ask you, are you willing?
to take all those old things and just count them as rubbish that you might move on and just glory in who God's called us to be.
Because I think about this.
It goes back to where we began the message.
Just sit.
then stand and then walk.
And it's so hard to just simply sit, because we're such a producing people, especially a producing culture like America.
We always have to accomplish something and produce something to consider it, that it was worth something.
But can I just rest in the will of God right now?
Whatever that situation may be, whether it's shipwrecked in perils,
or the quietness or maybe even the times where Paul's doing these amazing, wondrous works that I can just sit and go, you know what?
I'm just going to rest and that this is who you called me to be.
And I don't need to worry and strive myself for anything more than who you called me to be at this moment because some people, and this is where we cannot rest.
We think, and it doesn't matter.
Where you are and who you are, wherever we are sometimes we think, but wouldn't I be so much something more if I did this?
I do not think by any means that pastoring and teaching is a greater calling than being a mother, a housewife, or the worker at the mechanic, or the electrician, or the analyzer, whatever these things may be,
All of them, this is my will for you.
And this is where I put you because this is where I've determined for your life.
And then even when it becomes into the hard situations, Lord, this is, I'm yours.
This is what your will for me.
And then we can just be free and just rest because Matthew 3, 17, and suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, this is my beloved son in whom
I'm well pleased.
Jesus had not preached one sermon at this point.
He had not did any miracles.
He was a carpenter, and yet when he is revealed for his public ministry to begin, here's the Father, and he makes a statement about Jesus that carries well over into us
This is my son whom I'm well pleased.
God was already pleased with him.
It wasn't when he went to the cross.
It wasn't when he preached the sermon on the mound.
It wasn't when he raised Lazarus from the dead or any of those type of things.
It was before he even began his ministry and it was unknown in the whole world and the region at that time.
And he said, this is my son who I'm well pleased.
And I can just take this great comfort that God can say.
Ray, I'm pleased with you just as you are.
You don't need to perform something.
You don't need to accomplish something.
And we're going to see this next part about being the saint and faithful in Christ Jesus.
But before I move on to that, I move on to that point for whatever reason this week.
It wasn't even really anything to do with the study.
I was just sitting before the Lord and having some quiet time with Him.
And he took me all the way back to when I was 18 years old.
Well, I was at 20 years ago, 30 years ago.
I was 18 years old, living in Western Pennsylvania.
Right outside Pittsburgh.
Me and my friends, high school buddies, I played football with and stuff.
In the summer, we'd ride down to West Virginia because it was only
60 minutes or so.
And then we would go to Cheat Lake.
I don't even know how wide Cheat Lake was.
But for one day, for some reason, don't ask me why.
We said, let's swim across the lake.
And then we swim across the lake.
All of our car and all of our stuffs, we left it where we launched from.
So we got the other sign, of course,
Well, now you got to swim back.
So we start swimming back.
And if you've been to Chile, it's just that.
It's a lake.
And we start swimming back.
I wasn't smart in any means.
There's boats and jet boats and skiers, water skiers and all those type of things.
We start swimming back and I was halfway, and I know I shared this before, but I was halfway back over.
And I got this extreme cramp in my side.
And the cramp became so bad that I couldn't move the one arm.
And I'm the weakest swimmer.
I'm just not a good swimmer.
I'm a sinker.
But all my other friends, boy, they can swim.
So I'm now separated from them by dozens of yards.
They're ahead of me.
No one's looking back.
Everybody's just swimming.
And that cramp hit me.
And as I try to move my arms in the swim manner, it's not working.
And I'm telling you, I can still remember it like it was yesterday.
I remember sinking and start going under the water.
I can still remember looking up, you know, with however many feet of water there was.
ahead of me and the sun coming and I remember the stink even still this day I remember the distinct sound of boats underwater because it sounds different than when you're above water and then of course I'm saying to myself now I'm underwater a boat can whack me on the head or a propeller can chop chop me but nonetheless as I was going down and under
I remember saying, I can't believe it's going to end like this.
This is where I'm going to die.
Wasn't saved, had no idea.
There was even a gospel of Jesus Christ raised in religion and all those type of things.
And I remember going down, and I can tell you this without a doubt, miracle.
I remember going down,
And the next thing I consciously remember, I was on the shoreline.
Nobody saved me.
None of my friends came back for me.
No one swam me to shore.
Somehow my next conscious moment after being 10, 15 feet under water looking up through and seeing the sun piercing through was that I was on this shoreline.
And of course, I remember it like it was yesterday.
And I remember it right now.
And what's my point that I make about this is I sit and sometimes
I look at my faults and my failings and I look at all the things I wish I would be and could be in Christ Jesus and sometimes start saying punishment do upon me and the wrath of God.
Now just think of a moment like that.
If God wanted to punish me, He could have punished me right there and then He could have let me go under, He could have let me died and enter into the conscious state of eternal hell.
where the worm died not and the fires never quenched, an outer darkness to come.
But in whatever his love and his grace for absolutely no reason in and of myself, because obviously nothing I had done in my life to that point, except sin and break his holy law, he chose to reach down with that shepherd staff at his pluck me out and put me on the shore.
And I don't think he saved me to preach.
I don't think he
save me to be a missionary.
I don't think he saved me to be an evangelist or any of those type of thing.
He simply saved me because Saul, desired, desired because he desired me.
There was nothing beautiful in Saul.
There's nothing beautiful in me.
There's nothing beautiful in any of us.
And yet just the simple place of God's resting in his love.
And let's finish that as we look at that because the rest of verse one says to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus.
That's who we are, simply.
Saint means set apart.
Set apart when we talk about haggios, these things that are holy and set apart, they were dedicated to the Lord and this is all the Lord's coming to
coming through to say is you're a saint because I made you a saint and I dedicated you for me to be pleasing to me because I love you and I chose you and then you responded to me and I love this in English isn't my first language obviously unfortunately it is my only language
And I don't know it well, but I can still kind of hunt and peck through the things I got through school and was able to graduate.
This saint, it's a substantial adjective.
What does that mean?
You know, when we say something like, he's a good boy, or it's a beautiful day, the noun
The object is the boy.
Good is the adjective describing something more of the boy.
Day is the noun.
It's the object, if you would.
It's what you can hold in that manner.
And beautiful is the description, the adjective of it.
This word here, saint, in the way it's used in it to the saints who are in Ephesus,
It's both the noun.
It's both the noun and the adjective are the same thing, meaning the noun is that the saint is the person.
The noun is that they're beautiful and set apart.
And God sees and makes that
statement in the verb tense that's used here to say that this person, this is who they are.
It's not a description of who they are.
It is who they are.
When you say, Ray, that's who I am.
But when you say saint, God's saying, it's who they are.
I'm not making a description of them.
I'm simply stating
who they are.
And this is what he says to us through this passage.
This is who you are.
I'm not making a description of you.
I'm making a statement of who you are.
And that thing can never change because I will always be Ray.
You will always be who you are.
And I love this faithful in Christ Jesus.
That means trustworthy, faithful to what has been entrusted to us.
That's what this is meaning here.
We're simply faithful to what has been entrusted to us, and He has entrusted His Son to us.
Ephesians 1, 12, that we who first trusted in Christ should be the praise of His glory.
John 3, 16, the trust that we had when we made that decision that had a moment in time where I said, come to me, Lord, forgive me, my sin, become my Lord and Savior and the forgiver of my sin.
John 3, 16, for God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life.
That's what the Lord has entrusted to us.
And this is the beautiful thing.
This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased before he did anything.
And I think of, and I don't have the slide here, but it's Luke 22.
I think of Peter.
He denies the Lord those three times.
But before that, Jesus would say, Peter, Satan desires to sift you.
But I prayed for you.
And here's what's specific.
that your faith may not fail.
And this is what's so powerful for us as we look at these things and these type of things.
Peter failed in the action, but his faith never failed because Jesus was praying for him.
His faith that Jesus was the Messiah.
Jesus was who he said that he was and Jesus would do what he said he would do.
Peter's actions may have failed but the faith and trust that he had in Jesus and his calling and the position that he was in Christ never failed and I can look at that and I think you can all agree and relate to these type of things.
When I look over my life and I think of all the failings, I think of all the faults in my life.
I have so many things I wish I could go back and redo, and I think you feel the same.
If not, then you can just hear me talk out loud.
Even in the pulpit as a pastor, how many things I wish I could get a redo over.
But there's one thing that has never failed in my life, and that's my faith.
All the faults, plenty of them, but faith, my faith has never failed, and I know it's because
He who holds me.
It's He who that I'm in, that I'm still standing.
And here we are.
All of us with our faults in fact, we're still standing.
We had times where we wondered maybe even if we were saved, yet here we are still standing all these times later.
And for me, like next month or February,
It will be 35 years that the Lord called me out of the darkness, brought me into His marvelous light, and brought me in in my faith, and our faith never fails.
By the way, parents, grandparents, Proverbs 22, verse 6 says, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it.
Here is a great training ground for us as parents and grandparents.
great-grandparents, may we never forget to train our children up in who they are and their position in Christ.
And that's one of the greatest training grounds that we have here.
Written to the church in Ephesus, we could talk about that, but it was one of the fourth largest cities.
It had one of the largest
idle temples there, Artemis, sometimes known as Diana, in there in that place.
And I just love how the Lord does that.
It was one of the wonders of the world and people would go to see this marvelous temple.
And God uses the word play here to make this book that we call the Swiss Alps of the New Testament of I'm building my temple.
I'm building my body.
And he speaks of all these things in the Church of Ephesus because the whole world and their paganism, not the whole world, but millions of people in the region would come to this temple and yet this great temple and yet Jesus and God would make this word that he's stating here.
Oh, I got a temple that's way greater.
It's my temple, the Holy Spirit, and then my temple living inside you.
And grace to you in peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus,
Christ.
We will be picking up on that.
Should we continue in this next week or coming into the new year?
I think we'll probably have another study or two in Ephesians to close out the year and start a new year, but grace always comes before peace in all of Paul's writing because you'll never have the peace of God.
that your sin are forgiven, and that you're right with the Lord without the grace of God.
God's riches at Christ's expense.
And I close with Zephaniah 3.17, why we can rest as we started this, because he rest in his love.
Zephaniah 3.17, the Lord your God in your midst, the mighty one will save, he will rejoice over you with gladness,
He will quiet you with his love.
He will rejoice over you with singing.
We're going to sing one more worship song.
I hope it starts, but I close with this.
You know it takes faith, all of us, because I think we're all pretty much
Made and wired about the same way, takes a lot of faith to believe that Jesus Christ is singing over you right now.
When I sing worship, He's the object of my worship.
But for my mind to grasp that He will rejoice over you with singing that God Himself rejoices in a singing over us.
But it's true.
And I might not rest in myself because I know myself.
But if I'm going to look at this and say he will quiet you with his love, he will rejoice over you with singing.
If he's resting in his love for me, then I know that I can rest in his love for me.
Father, I thank you.
I bless you.
That you're singing over me.
This is the position, the place that you've given me in Christ Jesus, the beautiful place and wording that you've given us, Lord, as we look at this personal letter.
When you say don't take, when the world says don't take it personal, you cry out and scream out to us, take this personal.
It's about you.
And this position,
that we are in Christ Jesus because of your grace of the cross.
We have peace in the forgiveness of sin.
And we can claim this promise that we are saints dedicated, set a part for you to enjoy.
And the fact is that you sing over us.
That is a amazing grace.
Would you hear our heart in this worship?
as we lift it to you.